Spending Habits
================

Since 2011 I have been keeping meticulous records of everything I spend
money on. I really mean everything, including, for example, the 6 pence
I spent on a 75g carrot which I bought at 7:47pm on the 2nd of August
2014 at Tesco Cowley Road Metro\! There’s a total of 1850 recipts for
4803 items covering a duration of 6 and a half years. The code to
repoduce this analysis can be founnd in the [.Rmd](Finance.Rmd) file.

Looking at the distribution of item prices integer values (£1, £2 etc.)
are more common, as well as 25p and 50p increments. I guess consumers
prefer round numbers so companies size products accordingly (or just
round up and take the difference as profit).

<img src="Finance_files/figure-gfm/item-prices-1.png" width="960" />

Looking at the daily spend over time clearly shows the periods I was at
university and the periods I was at home (with food etc. paid for by my
parents) by the gaps where daily spending is £0. You can also see the
peak in expenditure at the start of each month due to rent payments.

<img src="Finance_files/figure-gfm/by-day-1.png" width="960" />

There are also time of day patterns for example during the summer terms
when I did internships I didn’t buy anything between 9am and 5pm on
weekdays because I was working. Aggregating over all years it seems my
favourite shopping times are 1pm and 7pm (lunch and dinner\!).

<img src="Finance_files/figure-gfm/by-time-1.png" width="960" />

My daily spending is nicely centered slightly below my target of
10k/year. The spike in spending in October 2016 is when I went to
Vancouver.

<img src="Finance_files/figure-gfm/rolling_mean-1.png" width="960" />

Breaking down my spending by category, Rent and bills account for 80% of
my spending followed by Food at just over
10%.

<img src="Finance_files/figure-gfm/by-category-1.png" width="960" /><img src="Finance_files/figure-gfm/by-category-2.png" width="960" />

My most commonly bought items are milk, bananas and bread.

<img src="Finance_files/figure-gfm/by-item-1.png" width="960" />

It’s fun to see how my purchasing habits have changed over time.

<img src="Finance_files/figure-gfm/by-item-by-time-1.png" width="960" />

As I also recorded the weights I can calculate, for example, the average
weight of a banana. Although I select large bananas to maximise banana
to peel ratio so this is a biased sample.

<img src="Finance_files/figure-gfm/bananas-1.png" width="960" />
